Preface

Vim has a bit of a learning curve
I will be covering beginner to intermediate tasks
NOTE: Use Screenkey



What is Vim?

Vim or Vi Improved is a clone of Bill Joy's Vi text editor
First released in 1991 for Unix systems
Ubiquitous text editor that can be used on Unix, GNU/Linux, Windows, macOS, iOS, Android and pretty much any other modern operating system you could think of
According to Stack Overflow's Developer Survey 2018, Vim is the 5th most popular development environment



Why Vim?

I'm tend to be lazy... efficient
I hate using my mouse, pointing and clicking feels slow to me
I love my keyboards (include photos)
I like to stay in terminal as much as possible
Vim is available everywhere, and I can easily bring my settings to whatever machine I'm working on
Modal editing
    - Modes include Normal, Insert, Visual, etc
Little optimizations that make my life easier
Vim is extensible
Vim is fast
Vim is magic



Navigation in Vim

hjkl
{ to move to beginning of paragraph, } for end
Ctrl-D to move down half a terminal, Ctrl-U for up
[H]igh [M]iddle [L]ow
zz to center line on terminal
f to find character in line
90G to go to line 90



Text Objects

[w]ords and [W]ords
Paragraphs
Lines, repeating characters to perform operation on entire line
    - yy, dd, cc
Repeating motions with numbers
Uppercase to end of line
    - D, C



Can Vim do X?

NOTE: Run vim without .vimrc for this section
NOTE: Write a file to showcase these features
Yes
Spellcheck
Split windows
    - C-w S horizontal split
    - C-w v vertical split
    - C-w Q close split
    - Launch vim with split, vim -o/O filename1 filename2
Search and replace (g and gc)
Jump to function definition
Ctrl-P to autocomplete



But can Vim do Y?

NOTE: Write a file to showcase these features
Yes, with plugins!
Plugins are not absolutely necessary, but improve workflow
NERDTree
Syntastic/ALE
Surround
gc to toggle comments
Vimify
Google is your friend, there are plugins for everything



What makes Vim *magic*?

gg=G to autoindent entire file
Ctrl+A to increment, Ctrl+X to decrement
gu to change text object to all capitals
Surround
:bulkrename in ranger
Running terminal commands
    - Testing code simply
    - Pulling data from standard output
Macros
!tac to flip lines



How can I make Vim more /comfy/?

You can edit your configuration file
Version control, use GitHub to keep track of changes
If you want to grab mine you can! git clone https://GitHub.com/RewoundVHS/dotfiles



Okay, you've convinced me to give it a try! How do I start learning Vim?

Run vimtutor. This takes about 30 minutes to complete and is available on all machines that have Vim installed.
Ask me for help!
I'd be more than happy to help you learn Vim and answer any questions you might have about the editor. Just as long as you stop using Nano ;)
